uls'roav OF THE ABIPONES. 363

CHAPTER XXXV.

OF THE SCOUTS, AND WAR COUNCILS OF THE ABIPONES.

THEIR method of warfare varies according to
the adversaries they have to deal with. They
adopt one mode of fighting against the Spaniardsg
another against savages like themselves. This,
however, may be observed in general, that they
are never precipitate in taking up arms against
any one, nor ever hazard an attack unless con-
fident of victory3 though, like European gene-
rals, they are often deceived. Where they had
looked for laureIS, they reap deadly cypresses—
they go out to seek wool, and return home
shorn themselves The fortune of war is always
uncertain. After having determined upon a
hostile expedition, they usually send out scouts
to discover which way they are to go, and at
what place begin the attack; to learn every
particular respecting the number of their neigh-
bours who might send supplies to their adver-
saries, and concerning the access to houses3
carefully to examine the situation most con-
venient for an ambuscade‚ the places by which
they might approach undiscovered, and whither,
if need required, they might betake themselves

