HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES. 243

sons of a cheerful disposition, fair complexim,
and less advanced period of life, underwent little
trouble and danger from this disease. The
burning of the throat, occasioned by the small-
pox breaking out there, together with the
cough and sort of quinsy it produces, are
highly dangerous, and frequently fatal to the
Indians. Water, mixed with sugar and citron—
juice‚ is very refreshing to persons afflicted
in this manner; a decoction of plantane leaves
is also of use to rinse the throat, and sorne-¹
times for the purpose of washing the eyes.
The old physicians advised persons in the
small-pox to stay within doors, and keep them-
selves well covered, lest the spots which are
ready to come out should be repressed to the
inward parts. The Abipones, on the contrary,
after taking the small-pox, passed days and
nights in the open air, or in huts half closed,
and admitting the air on every side. Whilst
flying to the recesses of the woods they re· ’
ceived the cold air into their whole bodies:
might not this be the reason why, out of so
great a number of sick persons, so very few
died of the small-pox ? For Ι have since learnt
that modern physicians think the open air
wholesomer for persons in the small-pox than
the heat of a room3 therefore I now no longer
wonder at this disease proving fatal to so many
R 2

