Hrsronv oF THE ABIPONES. 353

unacquainted with the very name of iron, they
fought with wooden spearS, fixing a cow's οῖ·
stag's horn to the end of them by way of a
point⁶ But when the Abipones obtained iron
points from the Spaniards, they dexterously
inserted them into their spears, and used them
to slaughter those from whom they had re-
ceived them. When going to fight they grease
the point of the spear with tallow, that it may
enter more readily and deeper into the flesh.
We have sometimes seen spears four palms
deep in hostile blood, with, such force had the
Abipones driven them into the sides of the sa-
vages who attacked our colony. As their tents
and huts are in general rather low, they fix their
spears at the threshold of the door to have
them always in readiness. By the number of
spears you may know the number of warriors
which the horde contains. As European gene-
raIS, to conceal the scanty number of their
forceS, and to supply the want of warlike in-
struments, have sometimes placed machines of
painted wood, on moundS, to frighten their
more numerous adversary3 we, in like manner,
availing ourselves of the same species of cun-
ning, fixed spears hastily made of reeds or
wood, in the houses of the absent Abipones;
deluded by which the enemies’ scouts reported

to their countrymen that the town was full of
vor. 11. A A ·

