HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES. 175

or Grlcapiclziam, which likewise signifies thou
wilt love. They sometimes prefix the particle
Tach to the second person of the imperative,
and Tcilc to the third: thus T ach grahdpiclzi
obey thou. Taclz gralcatf‘cmi, say thou. Tailc
hamele, let him come: Which also denotes the
present of the potential; thus: Tale lzanelc
Kadmells, the Spaniard may come for me. Pro-
hibition is expressed by the future With the
addition of the particle tchilc or chig& accord-
ing to the following letter. Thus, thou mayst
not kill, Cleit Isalzamatratiiam. Thou mayst not
lie, Chic Noalcaregrcmiam. ,

The optative, or subjunctive, is formed of
various particles, placed before or after the
present of the indicative: as I shall show by
exampleS.

Chigrie& would that. Clzigrielc grlcapiclzi
g'Dz'os elmam caogarilc .· Would that thou
wouldstlove God the Creator. Kar, if. Kec
greenfianss G'Dios grlcapiclzi leet: If thou vvert
good thou wouldst love God. Ket, if, is re-
peated both in the condition and the condition-
ated.

Amla, after that. Amla grlcapiclzi g'Dios,
Dios xlo ulcapiclzicfodm: After thou hast loved
God, God will love thee. Postquam armaveris
Deum, Deus amabit te.

ΕΙιεηΙιὰ, until. Elzenlzd mc clzigrlcdpc'clzi

