HISTORY OF THE AB1P0NEs. 1'17

tainly cannot boast of their beauty: for the
Indian dogs have no elegance of form, they are
generally middle-sized, and of various colours,
as with us. They are neither so small as the
dogs of Malta and Bologna‚ nor so large as
mastiffs. You never see any of those shaggy
curly dogs, which are so fond of the water, and
so docile, except amongst the Spaniards, who
have them sent over in European ships. But
though the Indian dogs do not excel in beauty,
they are by no means inferior to those of Eu—
rope in quickness of scent‚ in. activity, vigi-
lance, and sincere affection for their masters,
In every Abiponian colony, some hundred dogs
keep continual watch‚ and by the terrible howl-
ing and barking which they nightly utter in
choruss at the slightest motion, perpetually
disturbed our sleep, but never secured us from
being surprized by the enemy3 a troop of whom
would osten steal into the colony, whilst the
whole of the dogs maintained a profound silence.
Yet none of the Abipones ever blamed them,
foolishly imagining them bewitched by the magio
a'rts of the enemy’s jugglers. It may be rec-
koned amongst the blessings of Paraguay, that
it is unacquainted with madness in dogS, or any
kind of cattle, and that hydrophobia is unknown
here. This must be accounted a singular benefit

of Providence‚ and one of the wonders of nature
1 3

