440 HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES.

CHAPTER XLIII.

OF THE ABIPONIAN RITES ΟΝ OCCASION OF ANY ONE'S
BEING DECLARED CAPTAIN.

EVEN amongst savage nations, virtue has its re-
ward. Though almost ignorant that they are
men, they delight in honourable titles. The
Abipones do not account that the best nobility
which is inherited as a patrimony‚ but that
which is obtained by their own merits. Amongst
them, as no one is distinguished by his father's
name, in like manner no one is ennobled by the
famousdeeds of his father, grandfather, or great
grandfather. The nobility of valour and pro-
bity, not that of birth, is what they prize and
honour. By a kind of natural propensity they
respect the sons and grandsons of their Caciques
and Captains; yet if they be stupid, cowardly,
of unpleasant manners, or a foolish understand-
ing, they make them of no account, and never
prefer them to the government of the horde, or
os military expeditioris. They choose sor rulers
and leaders othels of the common people, whom
they know to be active, sag acious, blave, and
modest. Whoevcr has given pioofs of w arlike s

