HISTORY OF THE AmPONEs. 411

his hand, that if the captive endeavours to ex-
tricate himself he may ‘be awakened. Painful
indeed must the night be to these wretches‚ for
as they are entirely naked, their bodies are
bitten by swarms of ants and wasps, from which,
being bound hand and foot, they cannot defend
themselves, At the end of a miserable journey
they are either condemned to wretched slavery,
or- to the pile. Similar barbarity is practised
by the savages of South America towards their
captives. The Brazilians fatten them for some
time, and then publicly kill them by knocking
them on the head with a club. The limbs are
dissected and afford a feast to the whole horde;
sor they are cannibals, and engaged in perpe-
tual wars with their neighbourS. I cannot for-
bear mentioning a strange piece of cruelty prac-
tised by the Southern savages towards their
captives If they catch one of the enemy in the
plain they do not kill him, but cut off both his
feet and leave him there, so that unable to pro-
secute his Journey, he dies a lingering death
amidst the bitterest tormentS.

This wicked system of cruelty towards cap-
tives and enemies is abhorred by the Abipones,
who never torture the dying. After taking a
village of Spaniards or Indians, they do not
promiscuously slay all the inhabitants. Unless
highly irritated by somc previous injury, they

