208 HISTORY OF THE ABJPONES.

her marriage3 without the observance of other
ceremonies usual elsewhere, she is conducted,
not without pomp, to the tent of her spouse.
Eight girls hold up a beautiful garment like a
carpet in their hands, by way of a shade, under
which the bride goes, full of bashfulness, with
her eyes fixed upon the ground, preserving a
pensive silence, spectators being scattered
around. After having been received by her
spouse, and kindly saluted, she is brought back
by her hordesmen to her father's house, in the
same manner, and with the same attendants as
she left it3 whence, in a second and a third
journey, she brings the gourds, potS, pans, and
the weaving-machine, under a shade, to her hus-
band's tent, and after a very short conversation
returns to the house of her parents, where the
bridegroom is forced to go to take his food and
pass the night: for the mothers are so care-
ful of their daughterS, that evenvwhen they
are married they can hardly bear to part from
them, and deliver them immediately into the
power of another. After they have satisfied
themselves of the probity of their son-in-law, or

after the birth of a child, they suffer them to '

live in a separate house. These are the scanty
rites of the Abiponian nuptials, which however
are sometimes gladdened by a compotation on
the part of the men. Sometimes a drum is

