ulsTonY OF THE ABIPONES. 369

CHAPTER XXXVI.

OF THE HOSTILE EXPEDITIONS, PROVISIONS? AND CAMPS
OF THE ABIPONES.

Izr isa remarkable circumstance that the military
expeditioris which they conclude upon when
intoxicated‚ they faithfully execute, at the
appointed time, when sober. Not only arc they
destitute of almanacs, they even have no names
for the days and months. They know, however,
without the danger of mistake‚ on what day the
moon will begin, when it will be at full, and
when it will be on the wane. They use these
changes of the moon as a measure of time to
determine expedstions, so that though distant
many days' journey the parties assemble at the
appointed clay, and even meet at the very
precise hour that hacl- been agreed upon. For
though they have no names for the hours, and no
machine to point them out, they supply these
deficiencies by their fingers, with which they
point to that part of the sky which the sun or
moon or some nightly star will occupy at tho
period of meeting. When the moon is on
the wane, they generally judge it a fit time sor

ajourney, that they may set out under thc cover
vor. ΙΙ. n n

