158 msrom* OF THE ABIPONES.

Chiquitos, MocobiOS, Abipones‚ Tobas, Malba-
laes, Vilelas‚ PassaineS, Lules, Isistines, Homo-
ampaS, ChunipieS, Mataguayos, ChiriguaneS,
Lenguas or Guaycurr‘ffi, Mbayas, Pampas, Ser-
ranos, Patagones, and Yaros. Moreover, the
Guichua language, which is peculiar to the
whole of Peru, and very familiar to Negro
slaveS, to the lower orders amongst the Spa-
niardS‚ and even to matrons of the higher ranks
in Tucuman, was used by many of the Jesuits,
both in preaching and confession. Different
languages were spoken too in the towns of
the Chiqustos, which were composed of very
different nationS. The languages of the Abi-
poneS, Mocobios, and TobaS, certainly have all
one origin, and are as much alike as Spanish
and Portugueze. Yet they differ not only in
dialect, but also in innumerable little words,
The same may be said of the Tonocotc language,
in use amongst the Lules and Isistines. The
language of the Chiriguanes and Guaranies,
who live full five hundred leagues apart, is
the same, with the exception of 3 few words,
which may be easily learnt in the course of two
or three weeks by any one who understands
either of them.

Many writers upon America have interspersed
sentences of the Indian languages into their
histories3 but, good Heavens! how utterly de-

