iusi-oar oF THE ABIPONES. 365

keep their appointment, they imitate the voice
of some bird or beast, as agreed upon before-
hand, from which one may know and discover
the other. But this artifice must be warily
adopted3 for if at night-time they imitate the
note of a bird which is only heard by day, the
Spaniards know it to be uttered by the scouts
of the savages, and by timely cautions elude
the hostile attack. Often one companion sig-
nifies to another that he has arrived before-
'hand by broken boughs of trees, or high grass
knotted in various ways. None perform the
office of spy with more success than those
Abipones who in their childhood have been
taken in war, and bred up by the Spaniards,
and who have returned to their countrymen
when grown up; for, besides that they are ac-
tuated by a strouger hatred to the Spaniards,
and a keener thirst for vengeance, from their
acquaintance with places, and with the Spa-
nish tongue, they dwell for a time with im-
punity in the Spanish towns, and as they use
the same dress and language‚ are universally
taken for Spaniards. Secure by this artifice,
even in mid-day, and in the public market-
place‚ they survey every thing, and enquire
about whatever it is their interest to kn0w;
learn what military men are absent, or preparing
for departure3 what waggons are laden with

