HISTORY or THE ABIPONES. 443

horse, while he dismountS‚ the rest of the ma*
trons continuing to strike their lips, and ap-
plaud; when the candidate listens to a short
address from the old woman seated on a hide,
with as much veneration as if it was an oracle
from a Delphic tripod. Then mounting fresh
horses, he rides out in the same manner as be-
fore, first to the South, then to the East‚ and
then to the West, and after each journey
alights at the same tent, where that Pythian,
like a female Apollo, pours forth her eloquence,
The four excursions being performed, and the
horses dismissed, they all betake themselves to
that sacred tent, to witness the usual ceremony
of the inauguration. This ceremony consists of
three things: first the hair of the candidate is
shaven by an old woman, so that from the sore-
head to the back part of the head she leaves a
baldness or streak, three inches wide, which
they call leewffa. The business of the hair
being finished, the old woman pronounces a
panegyric, setting forth the noble actions of the
candidate, his warlike disposition, knowledge
of arms and horseS, intrepidity in difficulties,
the enemies that he has slaughtered, the spoils
that he has taken, the military fame of his an—
cestors‚ and so 011; 111 order that he may ap—
pear, on many accounts, worthy to be declared

