332 H1sroRY OF THE ABIPONES.

ings. They make burrows with infinite labour,
under churches and houses, digging deep si-
nuous meanders in the earth, and exerting their
utmost strength to throw out the loosened sodS.
Having got wings they fly off in all directionS‚
on the approach of heavy showers, with the same
ill fortune as IcarUS, but with this difference,
that he perished in the sea, they on the ground,
to which they fall when their wings are wetted
by the rain. Moreover those holes in the earth,
by which the ants used first to paSS‚ admit the
rain water, which inundates the caves of the
ants, and underrnines the building, causing the
wooden beams that uphold the wall and roof,
first to give way, and unless immediately sup-
ported, to fall along with the house. This is a
common spectacle in Paraguay. The whole
hill on which St. J oachim was built was covered
with ant-hius, and full of subterranean cavi-
ties. Our house, and the o‘ne adjoining, suf-
fered much from these insects. The chief altar
was rendered useless for many days ε for, it
being rainy weather‚ the lurking ants flew in
swarms from their caveS, and not being able to
support along ssight, fell upon the priest‚ the
altar, and sacred utensils‚ defiling every thing.
Ten outlets by which they broke from their
caves being closed up, next day they opened
twenty niore. One evening there arose a vio-s

