136 HISTORY OF THE ABIPONEs.

CHAPTER xvj

OF THE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE ABIPONES.

THE AbiponeS, in their whole deportment, pre-
serve a decorum scarce credible to Europeans.
Their countenance and gait display a modest
cheerfulness‚ and manly gravity tempered with
gentleness and kindness, Nothing licentious,
indecent, or uncourteous, is discoverable in
their actions. In their daily meetings, all is
quiet and orderly. Confused vociferations‚
quarrels, or sharp words, have no place there.
They love jokes in conversation, but are averse
to indecency and ill-nature. If any dispute
ariseS, each declares his opinion with a calm
countenance and unruffled speech: they never
break out into clarnours‚ tlireats, and reproaches,
as is usual to certain people of Europe. These
praises are justly due to the Abipones as long
as they remain sober: but when intoxicated,
they shake off the bridle of reason, become dis-
tracted, and quite unlike themselves. In their
assemblieS‚ they maintain the utmost politeness.
One scarcely dares to interrupt another, when

he is speaking. Whilst one man relates some

