Hrsronv OF THE ABIPoNEs. 13

enemies than to be loved, to terrify than attract
beholders‚ think the more they are scarred and
sun-burnt, the handsomer they are.

Ι observed that almost all the Abipones had
black but rather small eyes ; yet they see more
acutely with them, than we do with our larger
ones3 being able clearly to distinguish such
minute, or distant objects as would escape the
eye of the most quick-sighted European. Fre-
quently, in travelling‚ when we saw some ani-
mal running at a distance, and were unable to
distinguish what it was, an Abipon would
declare, without hesitation, whethenit was a
horse or a mule, and whether the colour was
black, white, or grey3 and on examining the
object more closely, we always found him
correct. ⁴

Moreover, in symm'etry of shape‚ the Abi-
pones yield to no other nation of America. I
scarce remember to have seen one of them with
a nose like what we see in the generality of
Negroes, flat, crooked, turned up towards the
forehead, or broader than it should be. The
commonest shape is aquiline 3 as long and sharp
as is consistent with beauty. An hundred de-
formities and blemishes, common among Euro—
peans, are foreign to them. Yon never see an
Abipon with a hump on his back, a wen, a hare
lip, a monstrous belly, bandy legs, club feet, or

