344 H1STORY OF THE ABIPONES. '

than a man’s middle finger. When an infinite*
swarm of them approaches, a terrible darkness
breaks from the farthest horizon, and you would
swear that a black cloud pregnant with rain,
wind, and lightning was drawing nigh. My
Abipones, on such occasions, often snatched up
arms, and placed themselves in battle array3 for
the locusts, beheld from a distance, looked like
a cloud of dust stirred up by a troop of hostile
savages. Wherever the locusts settle, they de-
prive the fields of their productions, the trees
of their leaves, the plain of grass, and men
and cattle os food3 while the numerous offspring
which they leave behind continue the devasta-
tion to another year, and create further misery.
The army of locusts is prevented from flying to
the ground, and feeding in the fields sowed with
various kinds of grain, by the sound of drums,
the shouting of voices, the firing of guns, and
continual rustling of boughs in the air; if these
methods fail of driving them away, all the men
in the Guarany towns are employed in collect-
ing and killing them. In one day we have often
with pleasure beheld many bushels sull of these
insects, and have condemned thern either to the
fire or the water. The Abipones had rather
eat locusts than drown or burn the1n3 on which
account, as they are fiying, they knock them
down to the ground with long stickS, roast

