28 HISTORY OF THE AmPONES.

itself, when in this spiral form, has an elastie
power which daily dilates the hole of the ear
more and more. Do not think that I have
exaggerated the size of this spire and the capa-
1 ciousness of the ear. With these eyeS, by the
aid of which I am now writing, I daily beheld
innumerable women laden with this monstrous
ear-ring, and very many men even of other
nations. For those most barbarous people the
ankakalots and Tobasâ€š and other American na-
tions out of Paraguay, use the same ear-rings as
the Abiponian women. The Guarany women
wear brass ear-rings sometimes three inehes in
diameter, not however inserted into the ear, but
suspended from it.

The Paraguayrians seem to have learnt the
various use of ear-rings from Peru. Its famous
king and legislator, the Inoa Manco Capac, per-
mitted his subjects to perforate their ears, pro-
vided however that all the ear-holes should be
smaller than those he himself used. He assign-
ed various ear-rings to all the people in the
various provinces: some inserted a bit of wood
into their ears3 some a piece of white wool not
bigger than a man's thumb3 others a bulrush3
others the bark of a tree. Three nations were
allowed the privilege of larger ear-rings than
the rest. All persons of royal deseent wore sor
ear-rings very wide rings which were suspended

