366 HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES.

merchandise, and whither they are bound, so
that they are afterwards easily plundered by
the savages in those immense deserts3 not one
of the waggoners or guards being able to pre-
vent the slaughter, as men of this description
are in general but ill provided with arms, and
still worse with courage.

The scouts‚ after having finished their jour-
ney and made an accurate report to their
employers of all they have seen and heard, a
council of war, and at the same time a drink-
ing-party is appointed3 for the Abipones think
themselves ill fitted for deliberation with dry
. lips. The Cacique‚ the. promoter of the expe-
dition, in the course of the drinking, delivers
his opinion on the affair, and enquires that of
the rest. He animates his companions to carry
on the thing with vigour‚ either by the ⁴ex-
ample of their ancestors, or by the hope of
glory or booty. Repeated draughts inflame
both the bodies and minds of the drinkers: for
the meed which they make of honey, or the
alfaroba, immediately disorders the brain, like
the strongest wine, an effect which is power-
fully increased by the shouts of the intoxicated‚
by singing, and the noise of drums and gourds.
The heroic deeds of their ancestorS‚ and former
victories, are generally the subjects of these
savage songs. The spectacle is as ridiculous

