256 HisToRY oF THE ABIPONES.

stored him to health, and gained me the repu-
tation of a physician amongst the Abipones.
Nothing will procure you the good-will of the
savages so soon as skill in the healing art. They
think that he who understands the natures and
remedies of diseases can be ignorant of nothing.
They will believe him in matters of religion,
and be tractable and obedient to him. Our
Saviour himself inspired mortals with wonder,
by healing bodies as well as souls. In imitation
of him, when we were employed in the instruc-
tion of the savages, we endeavoured to supply
the want ofphysicians‚ surgeons, and druggists,
by easily obtained remedies, by reading medi-
cal books, and by other means, in order to wean
that miserable people from their jugglers, whom
we accounted the chief obstacles to the propa-
gation of the holy religion.

It is incredible how well the sick are taken
care ofin the Guarany towns. Indians are ap-
pointed to attend upon them, more or fewer,
according to the number of inhabitants. These
men have some knowledge of herbs and com-
mon remedies, though they are not allowed to

use any medicine without consulting the mis- -

sionary. They carry in their hands a staff
marked with a cross, and are hence called cross—
bearers. It is their business to go about dawn
to visit the sick in the district appointed to

