HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES. 79

dwelt on low ground, their huts being entirely
inundated. But lo ! the next morning a report
was spread, that a female juggler, who had re-
ceived some offence from one of the inhabitants
of the town, had caused this great storm in the
intent of drowning the whole horde, but that
the clouds had been repulsed, the rain stopped,
and the town saved by the interposition of an-
other juggler. That dreadful flood did not ex-
tend to the neighbouring plain, where Pariekai-
kin, at that time chief of the Abiponian jugglers,
was then living with some companions, who,
aster a long drought, were very desirous of
getting water. This Pariekaikin in an oracular
manner declared, that Father Joseph Brigniel
had caused that rain for the advantage of his
town, and that because he, Pariekaikin‚ did not
choose to reside there, he had, out of revenge,
directed the clouds with such art, that not a
drop of rain reached his station. For they
made no hesitation in accounting that Father
a conjuror, because he happily and speedily

Ι healed the sick.

That the American jugglers enjoy familiar
intercourse with the evil spirit is not only
firmly believed by the ignorant savageS, but
some writers have even endeavoured to per-
suade Europe to believe it. For my part, after
so long an acquaintance with these nations Ι

