ms'ronv or THE ABIPONES. 123

santly as others would on the green turf. How
often have 'I crossed those tremendous rivers
sitting on a hide in the midst of them! You
would have called them so many N eptunes, so
familiar were they with the water. Their bold-
ness exceeds the belief of Europeans. When-
ever they had a mind to go from St. Ferdinand
to CorrienteS, they swam across that vast sea,
which is composed of the united streams of the
great Paraguay and the great Parana, with
their horses swimming beside them, to the great
astonishment of the Spaniards: for in this part
the river is formidable to ships even, from
its width, depth, and incredible rapidity, and
often filled myself and my companions with
terror when we sailed upon it, whilst I resided
in that colony. Formerly those savage plun-
dererS, whenever they hastened home with a
great number of beasts taken from the Spa-
niards, prudently crossed this immense river
towards the south, going srom island to island;
by which means they had time to recruit them-
selves and their beasts, after the fatigue of
swimming, in each of the islands. It will be
worth while to describe the manner in which
many thousands of horseS, muleS‚ and oxen, are
sent across great rivers to the opposite shore.
The herd of beasts is not all driven by one
person, but divided into companies, each of

